Appendix 1 – SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian’s Flags
=========================================

The input parameters for the code SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian are briefly
described below. Please see the manual of the code for a detailed
description.

A1.1 Group 0 - Basic 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

|image0|

**Figure A1.1:** Parameter form for ‘Group 0 - Basic’.

**NPROC** is the number of processors that the simulation is run on.
This is essentially dependent upon the high performance computer and
workflow you intend to submit your job to.

**NSTEP** is the number of time steps that you want to run your
simulation for. This should be set so that (NSTEP \* DT) is equal to the
time in seconds you want to simulate. So the model setup shown above
will run a simulation of 60 seconds, and provide synthetic seismograms
for 60 seconds after the origin time of the simulated earthquake.

**DT** is the time step in seconds used in the solver. This must be
small enough to ensure that the simulated waveform is properly sampled
and that the calculations are stable. The equations this is based on are
given in section 8 of this guide. For the meshes and models that are
already available in the portal though, the recommended DT is given in
Figure 4.4 and is the default in the portal.

**MODEL** allows you to select the velocity model that is used in the
simulation. Leaving this to ‘\ *default’* will select the 3D velocity
model that is specified in the drop down menu next to ‘\ *Velocity
Model*\ ’, at the top of the input parameters panel. It is however also
possible to select from a range of 1D models that are pre-loaded into
the solver SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian. (See the code’s manual for all the
available options).

**GPU\_MODE** allows SPECFEM to be run on high performance computers
that use graphical processing units (GPUs) rather than the more
conventional CPU (central processing unit). All the workflows currently
available on the VERCE platform use CPUs, so you should always leave
this box unchecked.

A1.2 Group 1 – Inverse problem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to calculating the wavefield from an earthquake source
(referred to as a ‘forward simulation’), SPECFEM can also be used to
calculate the adjoint wavefield, as well as being able to simulate noise
sources for ambient noise tomography applications. These options are
controlled by this group of parameters.

|image1|

**Figure A1.2:** Parameter form for ‘Group 1 – Inverse problem’.

**SIMULATION\_TYPE** is set to ‘\ *forward*\ ’ by default to model the
wave-field from an earthquake.

**NOISE\_TOMOGRAPHY** is set to ‘\ *earthquake simulation*\ ’ by default
as the noise tomography applications of SPECFEM are not currently
supported within the VERCE platform.

**SAVE\_FORWARD** is selected if the last step of the wave-field is to
be saved. This enables to back reconstruct the seismic wave-field, but
requires a large amount of storage space and it is not yet supported by
the VERCE platform.

A1.3 Group 2 – UTM projection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian uses, unsurprisingly, Cartesian coordinates, you
must specify the UTM zone that your model falls in. This is described in
more detail in section 8 when we consider uploading new meshes and
models. For the pre-loaded meshes and models though the correct UTM zone
is given by the tables shown in Figures 4.4 and 4.5, and is set
correctly by default when the mesh is selected.

|image2|

**Figure A1.3:** Parameter form for ‘Group 2 – UTM projection’.

**UTM\_PROJECTION\_ZONE** is where the UTM zone is specified. Only valid
when SUPPRESS\_UTM\_PROJECTION is unchecked (as in our case).

**SUPPRESS\_UTM\_PROJECTION** is not enabled in the VERCE platform,
meaning the model range must always be specified in geographical
coordinates (not Cartesian coordinates) and the conversion will be done
inside the code.

A1.4 Group 3 – Attenuation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the Earth seismic waves are attenuated by the visco-elastic
deformation as the wave propagates. If we are to gain simulated seismic
waves with a similar amplitude to the recorded waves, we must include
this attenuation in our waveform simulation.

|image3|

**Figure A1.4:** Parameter form for ‘Group 3 – Attenuation’.

**ATTENUATION** controls whether attenuation is incorporated or not.
Turning attenuation on means that extra variables are generated, and
therefore will increase the time taken for the simulation to run and
also the memory requirements.

**USE\_OLSEN\_ATTENUATION** can be used to define the attenuation model
from the S-wave velocity using the empirical relationship proposed by
Olsen et al. (2003).

**OLSEN\_ATTENUATION\_RATIO** determines the Olsen’s constant in Olsen’s
empirical relation and should be in the range of 0.02-0.1.

**MIN\_ATTENUATION\_PERIOD** is the minimum of the attenuation period
range over which we try to mimic a constant Q factor.

**MAX\_ATTENUATION\_PERIOD** is the maximum of the attenuation period
range over which we try to mimic a constant Q factor.

**COMPUTE\_FREQ\_BAND\_AUTOMATIC** is used to ignore the above range and
ask the code to compute it automatically based on the estimated
resolution of the mesh.

**ATTENUATION\_f0\_REFERENCE** is the reference frequency for target
velocity values in the velocity model.

A1.5 Group 4 – Absorbing Boundary Conditions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Parameters of this group allow to choose between Stacey absorbing
conditions or ‘convolutional perfectly matched layers’ (CPMLs) The last
ones are the most effective and therefore computationally efficient
absorbing boundary conditions and should be considered for all new
meshes that are uploaded. It is especially important that they are used
in models where you are particularly worried about side reflections
(e.g. models where receivers or particularly sources are very close to
the model edge). For a full discussion of the relative merits of the two
methods, please see the SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian manual.

|image4|

**Figure A1.5:** Parameter form for ‘Group 4 – Absorbing Boundary
Conditions’.

**PML\_CONDITIONS** select whether CPMLs are implemented. Please ensure
that Stacey absorbing conditions are unchecked if you do this. If
PML\_CONDITIONS and STACEY\_ABSORBING\_CONDITIONS are both unchecked,
you get a free surface instead.

**PML\_INSTEAD\_OF\_FREE\_SURFACE** replaces the free surface at the top
of the model with a PML absorbing layer. This can be useful if you are
simulating a deep model, rather than a model that includes the Earth’s
surface.

**f0\_FOR\_PML** is the dominant frequency of CPML, or the frequency at
which the PML will be the most effective. It should therefore be set to
the dominant frequency of the waveforms being simulated.

**STACEY\_ABSORBING\_CONDITIONS** is selected to activate
Clayton-Enquist absorbing boundary conditions on the sides and bottom of
the simulated areas. This is designed to prevent artificial reflections
from the model edges from affecting the simulated waveforms.

**ROTATE\_PML\_ACTIVATE** parameter used to rotate C-PML boundary
conditions by a given angle (not implemented yet)

**ROTATE\_PML\_ANGLE** parameter used to set the angle by which we want
the C-PML boundary conditions to be rotated (not implemented yet).

**BOTTOM\_FREE\_SURFACE** is checked to make the bottom surface of the
mesh a free surface instead of absorbing.

**STACEY\_INSTEAD\_OF\_FREE\_SURFACE** is largely the same as the
‘PML\_INSTEAD\_OF\_FREE\_SURFACE’ option, but the free surface is
replaced with the less effective Clayton-Enquist style absorbing
boundary conditions.

A1.6 Group 5 – Seismograms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These parameters control the output of seismograms produced by
SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian.

|image5|

**Figure A1.7:** Parameter form for ‘Group 5 – Seismograms’.

**NTSTEP\_BETWEEN\_OUTPUT\_SEISMOS** controls the frequency (in number
of time steps) that the seismograms are written to disk. Fewer disk
writes will allow the simulation to run quicker, but will also increase
the amount of data that is lost if the code does crash.

**SAVE\_SEISMOGRAMS\_DISPLACEMENT** is checked if we want to save
displacement in the forward runs (can be checked simultaneously to the
following three flags).

**SAVE\_SEISMOGRAMS\_VELOCITY** is checked if we want to save velocity
in the forward runs (can be checked simultaneously to the previous and
following two flags).

**SAVE\_SEISMOGRAMS\_ACCELERATION** is checked if we want to save
acceleration in the forward runs (can be checked simultaneously to the
previous two and following two flags).

**SAVE\_SEISMOGRAMS\_PRESSURE** is checked if we want to save pressure
in the forward runs (can be checked simultaneously to the previous three
flags). Currently it is implemented in acoustic elements only.

**USE\_BINARY\_FOR\_SEISMOGRAMS** saves seismograms in binary instead of
ASCII format (binary is smaller but may not be portable between
machines).

**SU\_FORMAT** outputs seismograms in Seismic Unix format (binary with
240-byte-headers).

**WRITE\_SEISMOGRAMS\_BY\_MASTER** decides if master process writes all
the seismograms or if all processes do it in parallel.

**SAVE\_ALL\_SEISMOS\_IN\_ONE\_FILE** saves all seismograms in one large
combined file instead of one file per seismogram to avoid overloading
shared non-local file systems such as LUSTRE or GPFS for instance.

**USE\_TRICK\_FOR\_BETTER\_PRESSURE** allows to use a trick to increase
accuracy of pressure seismograms in fluid (acoustic) elements (see
SPECFEM manual for details).

A1.7 Group 6 – Sources
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The VERCE platform is very much configured to simulate earthquake
sources. However there are other types of seismic sources such as active
sources, explosions or impacts that you may want to simulate. This can
be done using the options described below.

|image6|

**Figure A1.8:** Parameter form for ‘Group 6 – Sources’.

**USE\_FORCE\_POINT\_SOURCE** simulates a force point source (e.g.
impact source) rather than an earthquake source. If you are using this
option the source must be defined in a FORCESOLUTUION file, rather than
in the CMT solution convention used for earthquake sources. See the
SPECFEM manual for full details. This option is not yet implemented in
the VERCE portal.

**USER\_RICKER\_TIME\_FUNCTION** this inputs the source as a Ricker
wavelet, rather than the default delta/gaussian function that is
designed to represent the slip on a fault during an earthquake. Again
this option is useful for simulating non-earthquake seismic sources.

**USE\_EXTERNAL\_SOURCE\_FILE** is checked to use an external source
time function defined by an input file. This option is not yet
implemented in the VERCE portal.

**USE\_SOURCE\_ENCODING** determines source encoding factor +/-1
depending on the sign of moment tensor (for acoustic simulations only).

**PRINT\_SOURCE\_TIME\_FUNCTION** outputs the source time function input
to the simulation as a text file.

A1.8 Group 7 – Visualisation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One of the outputs of SPECFEM which can be requested through the VERCE
platform is a movie of the waveform simulation. This is usually output
on the surface topography of the model, but can be built for the whole
3D volume. This last option is extremely demanding on memory though, and
not recommended for normal simulations.

|image7|

**Figure A1.9:** Parameter form for ‘Group 7 – Visualisation’.

**CREATE\_SHAKEMAP** creates a map of peak ground velocity for the area
modelled.

**MOVIE\_SURFACE** sets the output movie for just the surfaces you
define in MOVIE\_TYPE.

**MOVIE\_TYPE** selects whether the surface movies and shake-maps are
generated for the top surface of the model (topography + oceans) only,
or for all external faces of the mesh (i.e. topography + vertical edges
+ bottom).

**MOVIE\_VOLUME** allows 3D snapshots of the entire model volume to be
output. This would allow the entire wave-field to be imaged, which could
be useful. But this would also be hugely demanding on memory and so
should be left unchecked by default.

**SAVE\_DISPLACMENT** saves displacement in the movie snapshots, rather
than the default, which is to save velocity for the movie.

**USE\_HIGHRES\_FOR\_MOVIES** saves the wave-field values for movies at
all the grid points so that the resolution of the movie is the same as
the resolution of the model. Selecting this option requires a large
amount of memory, so should not be selected by default.

**NTSTEPS\_BETWEEN\_FRAMES** sets the number of time steps between
snapshots of the wave-field. The spacing of the frames in seconds is
given by (NTSTEPS\_BETWEEN\_FRAMES\*DT).

**HDUR\_MOVIE** is the half duration of the source time function for the
movie simulation.

A1.9 Group 8 – Adjoint Kernel Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Beyond forward simulations, SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian allows for the
simulation of adjoint wave-fields useful for adjoint travel time
tomography procedures (Tromp et al., 2005). These simulations are
controlled by the options described below.

|image8|

**Figure A1.10:** Parameter form for ‘Group 8 – Adjoint Kernel
Options’.

**NTSTEP\_BETWEEN\_READ\_ADJSRC** interval in time steps for reading
adjoint traces.

**ANISOTROPIC\_KL** allows to compute anisotropic kernels in crust and
mantle instead of the default, which is to compute isotropic kernels.

**SAVE\_TRANSVERSE\_KL** allows to compute transverse isotropic kernels
rather than fully anisotropic kernels.

**APPROXIMATE\_HESS\_KL** outputs approximate Hessian for
preconditioning.

**SAVE\_MOHO\_MESH** saves Moho mesh and computes Moho boundary kernels.

A1.10 Group 9 – Advanced
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are a large amount of other functions within SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian
that can be altered using the VERCE platform. A brief description of
these functions is given below, but in most cases if you intend to use
these advanced options you should also refer to the SPECFEM m
  
+------------+------------+
| |image9|   | |image10|  |
+------------+------------+

.. centered:: **Figure A1.11:** Parameter form for ‘Group 9 – Advanced’.  


**NSTEPS\_BETWEEN\_OUTPUT\_INFO** controls the frequency that
information about a running simulation is output to a log file.

**NGNOD** controls the number of nodes for each element of the
hexahedral mesh. For all meshes loaded into the VERCE platform and all
meshes created using CUBIT this should be left at the default value of
8.

**APROXIMATE\_OCEAN\_LOAD** is a relatively computationally cheap method
of modelling the effect of oceans on the wave-field. It is however only
effective at relatively low frequencies (periods of 20 seconds and
longer). For higher frequencies if the effects of the water column are
to be modelled, the ocean must be included in the mesh itself.

**TOPOGRAPHY** is only needed if the ‘APROXIMATE\_OCEAN\_LOAD’ option
above is selected, and reads in the topography/bathymetry files needed
to define that surface.

**ANISOTROPY** is selected if you want to include seismic anisotropy.
You will also need to provide an anisotropy model to include this, and
this has not been done for any of the pre-loaded meshes and models, and
so cannot be selected for these cases.

**GRAVITY** is selected if you want to include gravity in your
simulation. It is effective only at very long periods.

**TOMOGRAPHY\_PATH** is the directory in which the tomography files are
stored for using external tomographic Earth models. For simulations with
the VERCE portal it is not required to set this parameter.

**SAVE\_MESH\_FILES** saves mesh files in a ‘\ *Paraview’* format for
later use.

**LOCAL\_PATH** is the directory in which the files for the partitioned
mesh will be written. For simulations with the VERCE portal it is not
required to set this parameter.

**SEP\_MODEL\_DIRECTORY** should be set if you are using a SEP model
(oil-industry format). This option is not yet implemented in the VERCE
portal.

**ADIOS\_ENABLED** is checked to enable ADIOS. If it is not checked,
subsequent ADIOS parameters will not be considered. This option is not
yet implemented in the VERCE portal.

**ADIOS\_FOR\_DATABASES** is checked to use ADIOS for xmeshfem3D output
and xgenerate\_database input.

**ADIOS\_FOR\_MESH** is checked to use ADIOS for generated databases.

**ADIOS\_FOR\_FORWARD\_ARRAYS** is checked to read and write forward
arrays using ADIOS.

**ADIOS\_FOR\_KERNELS** is checked to produce ADIOS kernels that can
later be visualized with the ADIOS version of combine\_vol\_data.

**USE\_LDDRK, INCREASE\_CFL\_FOR\_LDDRK,
RATIO\_BY\_WHICH\_TO\_INCREASE\_IT** are the parameters to set up the
LDDRK time scheme. This option is not yet implemented into the VERCE
portal. See the manual of SPECFEM for details.

**OUTPUT\_ENERGY** allows to plot energy curves, for instance to monitor
how CPML absorbing layers behave. This option is turned off by default
since it is a bit expensive.

**NTSTEP\_BETWEEN\_OUTPUT\_ENERGY** controls the interval of time steps
between the energy computation.

**NUMBER\_OF\_SIMULTANEOUS\_RUNS** allows to simultaneously run (in an
embarrassingly-parallel fashion) multiple earthquake simulations each
with the same number of cores. This option is not yet implemented in the
VERCE portal.

**BROADCAST\_SAME\_MESH\_AND\_MODEL** allows to broadcast the same mesh
and velocity model to multiple events in case of
NUMBER\_OF\_SIMULTANEOUS\_RUNS>1. This option is not yet implemented in
the VERCE portal.

.. |image0| image:: images/Appendix1/image1.png
   :scale: 80%

.. |image1| image:: images/Appendix1/image2.png

.. |image2| image:: images/Appendix1/image3.png

.. |image3| image:: images/Appendix1/image4.png
  :scale: 80%

.. |image4| image:: images/Appendix1/image5.png
  :scale: 80%

.. |image5| image:: images/Appendix1/image6.png
  :scale: 70%

.. |image6| image:: images/Appendix1/image7.png
  :scale: 80%

.. |image7| image:: images/Appendix1/image8.png
  :scale: 80%

.. |image8| image:: images/Appendix1/image9.png
  :scale: 80%

.. |image9| image:: images/Appendix1/image10.png

.. |image10| image:: images/Appendix1/image11.png

