VERCE glossary
==============

**Workflow** – refers to a sequence of jobs that can be submitted. In
the VERCE project we have a number of workflows prepared that can run
you job on a specific high performance computer.

**HPC** – high performance computing. This usually refers to parallel
computers, where a given computational task is spread over many separate
processing cores.

**iRODS** – a suite of data managements software that is embedded within
the VERCE platform, and allows you to easily access your data regardless
of where you submitted your simulation.

**superMUC** – a super computer hosted by the LRZ in Munich, Germany.

**SCAI** – a super computer hosted by CINECA in Italy.

**DT** – the time step of the waveform model.

**Solver** – shorthand for the code that does the forward calculation.
The solver currently hosted in the VERCE platform is SPECFEM.

**Mesh** – the grid over which the wavefield is calculated. The modelled
space is broken up into a grid of points, each with specific seismic
properties (e.g. p-wave velocity, s-wave velocity, seismic attenuation).
The spacing of this grid is able to change especially with depth (due to
the increasing seismic velocity). The structure of these grid points is
referred to as the mesh.

**Velocity model** – this is the seismic velocity model that is input
for an area, and includes the p-wave and s-wave velocities. Most models
in the VERCE portal are 3D, though there are some 2D models (for
subduction zones) and 1D models (global 1D velocity models) available.

**CPML** – ‘convolutional perfectly matched layers’ are a type of
absorbing boundary condition

**Absorbing Boundary Conditions** – are at the edges of the model that
shouldn’t reflect the seismic energy. These boundary conditions are
designed to absorb an incoming wave simulating an infinite medium.

**CUBIT** – an external program used for making meshes for a variety of
scientific and engineering modelling disciplines.

**TRELIS** – the commercial name for the CUBIT package.

**GeoCubit** – a python based program that uses CUBIT command to create
meshes for geographical bodies. Particularly, GeoCubit can produce
meshes that include topography and/or bathymetry.
