3. Registering for the platform and certification
=================================================

The VERCE platform can be accessed through a normal web browser. The
portal has been well tested with browsers such as *Mozilla Firefox* and
*Safari*, and should also work with *Google Chrome*. At this stage the
portal doesn’t support *Internet Explorer* or *Microsoft Edge.*

3.1 Registering for the platform
--------------------------------

Registering for the portal is exceptionally easy. Simply go to the VERCE
portal website on the link below and click the |image0|\ icon. Fill in
your details ensuring that you use your university email address (i.e.
your academic email address) if at all possible. This can take one or
two working days to be processed so please leave yourself time for this.

https://portal.verce.eu/home

|image1|

**Figure 3.1:** The VERCE sign up page

3.2 Getting a certificate
-------------------------

In addition to registering for the platform you must also get an
e-science certificate from the relevant authority. This is an
internationally recognised certification scheme that will allow you to
submit simulations to a wide range of supercomputers. Without an
e-science certificate you will be able to log into the portal website,
but you will not be able to submit jobs to any of the super computers,
or access any data through the portal.

The procedure for getting an e-science certificate depends on the where
you are based as the e-science certificates are distributed by national
certification authorities. First you must request an e-science
certificate from your national provider, following the instructions on
the relevant website:

-  For the UK: http://www.ngs.ac.uk/ukca/certificates

-  For Germany:
   https://pki.pca.dfn.de/grid-root-ca/cgi-bin/pub/pki?RA_ID=101

-  For the Netherlands: http://ca.dutchgrid.nl/

-  For France: https://igc.services.cnrs.fr/GRID2-FR

-  For Italy: http://security.fi.infn.it/CA

You then have to go to an administrator (usually in your university) who
confirms who you are, and (hopefully) approves the certificate. This can
also take a day or two, so please leave time for this.

It is important to back up this certificate in a different location to
the host computer (i.e. the computer that you used to request and
download the certificate). Your local certificating authority will
provide full details of how to do this.

3.3 Installing your certificate in your browser
-----------------------------------------------

To make the next stages of registration easier it is recommended that
the users install their new certificate to the browser. Ideally this
should be done on the computer you are most likely to be using the VERCE
portal from. The certificate must first be exported from the certificate
manager (see instructions from your national certificating authority).
Both the ‘Private Key’ and the Certificate should be exported in
‘PKCS#12’ format. The certificate is exported to the local machine, and
is protected with a new password.

To install the certificate on Mozilla you must first select
*'Options/Preferences'* from the menu button (|image2|) in the top right
of the browser. Select the ‘\ *Advanced*' tab from the left-hand panel
and then the ‘Certificates’ tab under the ‘Advanced’ menu. Finally
select ‘\ *View Certificates’* and click *‘Import’* to upload your
certificate from its location on your local machine using the new
password set when exporting the certificate.

Other browsers can be used (see start of section for browser options),
but the procedure for uploading the certificate will vary. You must then
ensure that you use this browser for the validation steps outlined
below, and ideally when you log in to the portal.

3.4 Registering for super computing and data resources
------------------------------------------------------

The VERCE portal and iRODS are currently hosted by the ‘SCAI Fraunhofer’
supercomputer, in Germany.

To register for SCAI and iRODS, please send the information listed below to André Gemünd (andre.gemuend@scai.fraunhofer.de) at
SCAI Fraunhofer, and request to be registered for the VERCE portal.
André will be able to give you an account on ‘SCAI’ and ‘iRODS’ that
will allow you to calculate and manage waveforms respectively. ‘iRODS’
is a suite of data management software that is embedded within the VERCE
platform, and allows you to easily access your data regardless of where
you submitted your simulation.

-  First Name

-  Last Name

-  Nationality

-  Affiliation

-  Professional Address (including country)

-  Telephone Number

-  Email address

-  Certificate DN (distinguished name, also called subject) of your
   certificate

3.5 Creating and uploading proxy certificates
---------------------------------------------

Once you have got your national e-science certificate, you will need to
load a proxy certificate up to the portal to allow you to access data
and submit jobs to the available supercomputers. A proxy certificate is
essentially a copy of the full certificate that will expire after a
short time period (usually 24 hours). This allows you to upload and use
your certificate, while the limited life span of the proxy minimises the
risk of the certificate falling into the wrong hands.

Currently you can create a Proxy certificate using either the
GSISSH\_Term tool or the command line MYPROXY tools, both described
below. We hope to provide a proxy certificate tool in the near future.

3.5.1 MYPROXY Tools
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To run simulations on the VERCE Portal it is necessary to have stored
your credentials (a proxy certificate) in a MyProxy repository so that
it’s available for download through the portal when needed. To create a
proxy certificate, you need to have a user certificate (from your
national provider, listed above) and a private key file (with a .PEM
format).

If your certificate is in p12 format, the relevant certificate format
and private key file can be created as below. Run the following commands
in the command line:

.. code-block:: RestructuredText

 openssl pkcs12 -clcerts -nokeys -out usercert.pem -in cert.p12

 openssl pkcs12 -nocerts -out userkey.pem -in cert.p12

The above commands should generate the files usercert.pem and
userkey.pem. Once this is done then to protect your keys you would need
to run the following commands:

.. code-block:: RestructuredText

	chmod 644 usercert.pem

	chmod 400 userkey.pem

Before you could use the below proxy tools you will need first to
perform the following:

-  Create a “. globus” folder in your home directory and then copy the
   files usercert.pem and userkey.pem to this particular folder

-  Install Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 1.7 or higher

    For the GSISSH\_term tool you should also do the following steps:

-  Download the “Java Cryptography Extension (JCE) Unlimited Strength
   Jurisdiction Policy Files”

-  Extract the two jar files, "local\_policy.jar" and
   "US\_export\_policy.jar", and copy them to {JRE\_HOME}/lib/security

3.5.1.1 GSISSH\_Term Tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The GSISSH\_Term is a Java based application supported on most
platforms. It is currently available for download on
https://www.lrz.de/services/compute/grid_en/software_en/gsisshterm_en/
and can be installed either as a desktop application or as a Java
webstart application.

To run GSISSH-Term as a Java webstart application, you need to have Java
webstart (javaws) installed on your machine. This should already be
included in the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) for Java SE 7.

Once the GSISSH-Term application has ran successfully then you can
launch “MyProxy Tool” by selecting “MyProxy Tool” option from the
“Tools” menu. A new popup window should appear as shown Figure 3.5.1.1.

|image3|

**Figure 3.5.1.1:** Launching MyProxy Tool on GSISSH\_Term
application.

With MyProxy Tool you can upload, check and remove your credential
to/from a MyProxy server. The tool also supports the generation and
upload of voms-enabled proxy.

To create and store a proxy certificate in a MyProxy server, do the
following steps:

-  Launch MyProxy Tool on a machine where your Grid credentials are
   located.

-  Select “Create and upload proxy” from the dropdown list.

-  In the “MyProxy Server Information” panel enter:

   -  a URL of MyProxy server,

   -  a port number to connect to MyProxy server,

   -  a lifetime span for your proxy certificate and

   -  a username you could use later to retrieve or download your
      credentials from MyProxy server.

-  In the “Local Certificate” panel:

   -  choose your certificate format from the dropdown list,

   -  for PEM format as mentioned above place both usercert.pem and
      userkey.pem in a folder named “.globus” which should be located
      within your home directory.

   -  For passphrase enter your grid-proxy passphrase.

-  Click on the “Create and Store” button.

-  Once the connection to MyProxy server has been established then you
   will be prompted to enter a new passphrase which you will need to use
   later along with other details to access your credentials on MyProxy
   server. It is recommended to use a passphrase that is different to
   your grid-proxy passphrase

3.5.1.2 MYPROXY command line tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The MYPROXY tools can then be installed as by running the following
commands in the command line of a Linux or mac machine:

.. code-block:: RestructuredText

	sudo apt-get install myproxy

	sudo apt-get install voms-clients

Installing the packages below will allow you to manage your certificate
(from your national certificating authority). More details on this are
given at https://wiki.egi.eu/wiki/EGI_IGTF_Release. To install the
relevant packages:

1) Add the following line to your dpkg sources (sources.list file):

   .. code-block:: RestructuredText

      #### EGI Trust Anchor Distribution ####

      deb http://repository.egi.eu/sw/production/cas/1/current egi-igtf core

2) Run the following to add the EUGridPMA PGP key:

   .. code-block:: RestructuredText

      sudo wget -q -O –`https://dist.eugridpma.info/distribution/igtf/current/GPG-KEY-EUGridPMA-RPM-3\| <https://dist.eugridpma.info/distribution/igtf/current/GPG-KEY-EUGridPMA-RPM-3|>`__
	  sudo apt-key add –

3) Populate the cache and install the meta-package

   .. code-block:: RestructuredText

      sudo apt-get update

	  sudo apt-get install ca-policy-egi-core

To store a credential in the MyProxy repository, run the *myproxy-init*
command on a computer where your Grid credentials are located. For
example:

.. code-block:: RestructuredText

	myproxy-init -s myproxy.lrz.de

This will prompt you for your grid-proxy passphrase and then for a new
passphrase for accessing your credentials from the MyProxy server. It is
recommended to use a passphrase that is different to your grid-proxy
passphrase.

By default, MyProxy uses your local Unix username to store your
credentials and the proxy certificate is stored for 7 days in the
MyProxy server. However, you can change this and register a proxy
certificate for a specific number of hours using the -c option.

For example, running the following command will register a proxy
certificate for 2 hours

.. code-block:: RestructuredText

	myproxy-init -c 2 -s myproxy.lrz.de

To download your certificate, go to the ‘Security’ tab on the VERCE
Portal and click on the ‘Download’ button under the ‘Certificate’ panel
then under ‘\ **Hostname’** enter the MyProxy server (e.g.
myproxy.lrz.de) and your MyProxy username and passphrase. This is
described in more detail in section 3.5.2 (below).

For more details of MyProxy commands, see

http://toolkit.globus.org/toolkit/docs/4.0/security/myproxy/user-index.html

3.5.2 Uploading a proxy certificate to the VERCE platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once you have created you proxy certificate using one of the methods
above, you need to load the certificate into the VERCE platform in order
to be able to submit jobs and access the data.

To do this you need to go to the ‘Security’ page. On this page click the
|image4| button which will display the proxy certificate upload panel as
shown below in Figure 3.5.

\ |image5|

**Figure 3.5:** The proxy certificate upload panel.

Here you need to enter the address of the institution hosting your proxy
certificate in the **‘Hostname’** box (e.g. myproxy.lrz.de). The
username and password you set for your proxy certificate must then be
entered in the **‘Login’** and **‘Password’** boxes respectively.
Clicking the |image6|\ button then adds the proxy certificate to the
portal, allowing you to access the high performance computing (HPC)
resources and data.

The proxy certificate will only be valid for up to 24 hours, so you will
need to repeat this process of creating and uploading the proxy
certificate every time you wish to use the VERCE portal to run
simulations or access data.

3.5.3 Certificate Association
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Once you have successfully uploaded your certificate, you must associate
the certificate with the platform (verce.eu) and any resources you
intend to use in this session (e.g. supercomputing resources). The proxy
certificate will then authenticate you as a user, and allow you to
access the HPC and memory resources.

First navigate to the ‘Security’ tab. Here you will see details of the
proxy certificate you have just uploaded as shown below. Click the
‘Associate to VO’ button to bring up the page shown in figure 3.6. You
can now select the resource you wish to associate your proxy certificate
to from the drop-down menu located below your certificate details. You
can see in both figure 3.5 and figure 3.6 that the proxy certificate
here is associated to verce.eu, SuperMUC and SCAI\_Cluster2.

|image7|

**Figure 3.5:** The proxy certificate loaded into the certificates page
of the portal. This proxy certificate has been associated with SCAI computing resources.

|image8|

**Figure 3.6**: The certificate association page. The resources to
which the certificate may be associated are listed in the dropdown box
shown in the bottom right of the figure.

.. |image0| image:: images/Section3/image1.jpg

.. |image1| image:: images/Section3/image2.png

.. |image2| image:: images/Section3/image3.png

.. |image3| image:: images/Section3/image4.jpg

.. |image4| image:: images/Section3/image5.jpg

.. |image5| image:: images/Section3/image6.jpg

.. |image6| image:: images/Section3/image5.jpg

.. |image7| image:: images/Section3/image7.jpg

.. |image8| image:: images/Section3/image8.jpg

