6. A SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE simulation example
========================================

6.1 Introduction
----------------

SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE is a spectral element code for simulating the seismic
wave-field on regional and global scales. As the solver accounts for the
curvature of the Earth is much better for large scale simulations.
Unlike SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian, SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE does not require a
pre-made mesh. Instead the mesh is produced for the simulation area by
an inbuilt meshing tool.

For global waveform simulations (i.e. simulations where the whole earth
is simulated) the user only defines the grid spacing for the whole earth
mesh. For regional simulations (where a segment of the globe is
simulated) the user defines the area to be modelled and the grid spacing
for that bespoke mesh. The mesh is then calculated before the simulation
is run.

6.2 Setting the simulation area
-------------------------------

Once the user has selected the SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE solver from the drop
down ‘\ *solvers’* menu in the ‘\ *Solver’* tab the user will have the
option to select from two mesh types. The first of these is ‘\ *Globe’*,
to run a global simulation. The second of these is ‘Bespoke’, which
allows a user defined area to be modelled.

6.2.1 Global Simulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you select global simulation, then you are modelling the whole globe.
Therefore, all earthquakes and all seismic stations will be available
for modelling. The user can define the length of the simulation (by
varying the RECORD\_LENGTH parameter) and the resolution of the
simulation (by varying the mesh parameters) as described in section 6.4.
The ‘velocity model’ must then be set to default.

6.2.2 Regional Simulation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you select a *‘Bespoke’* mesh you are able to define the specific
region you wish to simulate. This is defined by setting the centre of
the area to be modelled with the parameters
*‘CENTRE\_LONGITUDE\_IN\_DEGREES’* and
*‘CENTRE\_LATITUDE\_IN\_DEGREES’*. The width and height of the area to
be simulated are then defined by the *‘ANGULAR\_WIDTH\_XI\_IN\_DEGREES’*
and *‘ANGULAR\_WIDTH\_ETA\_IN\_DEGREES’* which describe the width of the
region at the closest point to the equator, and the height of the region
in degrees of longitude and latitude respectively. The approximate area
to be simulated is shown on the map to the left, allowing the area to be
refined and appropriate earthquakes and seismic stations to be selected
for simulation.

|image0| 

**Figure 6.1:** Example model setup for a global waveform simulation

|image1|

**Figure 6.2:** Example of regional simulation for Southern European
and Mediterranean region.

6.3 Selecting a velocity model
------------------------------

For both regional and global simulations a range of global 1D and 3D
velocity models can be used. These velocity models are defined within
SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE, and so are not defined in the *‘Velocity Model’* tab.
Instead the models are defined in the dropdown *‘MODEL’* menu in group 0
of the input parameters.

The input parameters for SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE are divided into 9 groups,
which are briefly described in Appendix 2.

6.4 Defining the resolution & mesh parameters
---------------------------------------------

In SPECFEM the frequency of seismic wave that can be accurately
simulated depends on both the grid spacing (*DH*) of the mesh of points
the wave-field is calculated for, and the time step (*DT*). Unlike
SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian, (where *DT* is manually defined, and should be set
to an appropriate value for the mesh and velocity model that are
selected), SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE calculates the *DT* that is needed, based on
the grid spacing of the mesh. The user therefore defines the highest
frequency (or shortest wavelength) that the setup can accurately
simulate by setting the mesh parameters.

For the Global case the user must first define how many ‘chunks’ the
globe should be subdivided into, the default on the platform being 6.
For regional simulations the simulation area must be defined as a single
chunk. The resolution of the simulation is then prescribed by the values
‘NEX\_XI’ and ‘NEX\_ETA’, which correspond to the number of elements at
the surface of the model space for the first chunk in the side of length
XI and ETA respectively. SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE requires that the value of
NEX\_XI must be a multiple of 16, and be 8 times a multiple of
NPROC\_XI. In turn the value of NEX\_ETA must be a multiple of 16, and
be 8 times a multiple of NPROC\_ETA. To summarise;

.. math:: \text{NE}X_{\text{XI}} = \ c \times 8\left( \text{NPRO}C_{\text{XI}} \right)

.. math:: 

   \text{NE}X_{\text{ETA}} = \ c \times 8\left( \text{NPRO}C_{\text{ETA}} \right)

Where :math:`(\text{NPO}C_{\text{ETA}}*c)` and
:math:`(NPOC_{\text{XI}}*c)` are even and greater than 2.

The shortest period resolved by the simulation can then be approximated
by the following equation;

.. math:: \text{shortest period }\left( s \right) \simeq \left( \frac{256}{\text{NE}X_{\text{XI}}} \right) \times \left( \frac{\text{ANGULAR_WIDTH_XI_IN_DEGREES}}{90}\  \right) \times 17

For regional simulations the areas you have defined at the Earth’s
surface will be modelled. The depth of the simulation area is
automatically defined, and the wave filed is simulated down to the inner
core boundary in regional simulations. This means that certain seismic
phases that travel through the core will not be seen. The VERCE platform
automatically sets absorbing boundary conditions for simulation areas.
However, as these boundary conditions are not perfect care should be
taken if using receivers or in particular sources that are close to the
limits of the region simulated.

Once you have defined the area you wish to model the earthquake sources
and receivers can be defined in the ‘\ *Earthquakes* ’ and
‘\ *Stations’* tabs.

6.5 Selecting an Earthquake
---------------------------

For global and regional simulations the only earthquake catalogue that
is currently supported is the gCMT catalogue. Other earthquake
mechanisms can be uploaded is gCMT format using the ‘\ *file*\ ’ tab.
The format needed is shown in figure 6.5.

If you are using the gCMT catalogue supported in the portal, you can
search for events of certain magnitudes and dates using the search
parameter boxes, and the available earthquakes are seen inside the mesh
area. This is shown for global simulation (figure 6.3) and a regional
simulation (figure 6.4) below. The relevant earthquake can then be
selected from either the map (by clicking on the red dot) or from the
list to the right.

|image2|

**Figure 6.3:** earthquake search for a global simulation.

|image3|

**Figure 6.3:** earthquake search for a regional simulation for
Europe.

|image4|

**Figure 6.4:** Format of a bespoke CMT solution for upload to the
portal. (Image from the SPECFEM3D Globe manual).

6.6 Selecting stations 
-----------------------

Stations can then be selected as for Cartesian simulations. For
SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE the only source of station locations that is built in
is the IRIS catalogue. If you wish to add further stations, station
locations can be manually uploaded in the format shown in figure 6.5.

Example station searches for a regional simulation of Europe and for a
global simulation are shown in figures 6.6 and 6.7 respectively. In the
global simulations particularly, it can be useful to specify the
specific networks needed by specifying the network code in the
‘\ *Networks’* drop-down box. Stations from multiple networks can be
search by separating the network codes with a comma only (no space) e.g.
(IU,II). If all stations are selected the station searching and data
parsing will be very slow, and it is unlikely that this volume of data
will be useful. So please take the time to search for useful stations
carefully.

|image5|

**Figure 6.5:** Format for manual station location upload (Image from
the SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE manual)

|image6|

**Figure 6.6:** Searching for stations in a regional mesh.

|image7|

**Figure 6.7:** Searching for stations in a global mesh.

6.7 Submitting and monitoring the simulation
--------------------------------------------

Once the simulation has been setup, the relevant earthquake source(s)
defined, and the required stations selected the simulation can be
submitted to the supercomputer. The workflow is selected from the top
drop-down box, with different workflows corresponding to different HPC
resources. The name and description boxes allow you to document exactly
what this simulation is for.

Once the model has been submitted the progress of the simulation can be
monitored on the ‘results’ tab. As the processing is done on a HPC
machine, the simulation may not run immediately, as these large jobs are
managed in a queue system.

|image8|

**Figure 6.8:** Submitting a job, for a regional simulation of Europe
using SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE.

|image9|

**Figure 6.9:** Monitoring the progress of submitted job through the
‘results’ tab.

6.8 Outputs from regional & global simulations
----------------------------------------------

The results of these simulations can then be accessed through the
results tabs as described in the next chapter. Example outputs include
waveforms (figure 6.10), a .kmz file that can be used to view the
waveforms in geographical context (figure 6.11), as well as global and
regional snapshots and movie animations (e.g. figure 6.12).

|image10|

**Figure 6.10:** Waveform produced by regional simulation.

|image11|

**Figure 6.11:** Waveforms in geographical context using KMZ file
viewed in Goole Earth.

|image12|

**Figure 6.12:** Snapshot from a regional simulation of Europe, using
regional settings in SPECFEM3D Globe.

.. |image0| image:: images/Section6/image1.png

.. |image1| image:: images/Section6/image2.png

.. |image2| image:: images/Section6/image3.png

.. |image3| image:: images/Section6/image4.png

.. |image4| image:: images/Section6/image5.jpg

.. |image5| image:: images/Section6/image6.jpg

.. |image6| image:: images/Section6/image7.png

.. |image7| image:: images/Section6/image8.png

.. |image8| image:: images/Section6/image9.png

.. |image9| image:: images/Section6/image10.png

.. |image10| image:: images/Section6/image11.png

.. |image11| image:: images/Section6/image12.png

.. |image12| image:: images/Section6/image13.png
