1. Introduction to the VERCE platform
=====================================

The VERCE portal is an online resource that allows large scale, 3D full
waveform simulations to be easily run on a variety of high performance
computers, and the associated large data sets to be managed easily. This
resource is designed to make the ever increasing potential of full
waveform seismological techniques available to a much wider spectrum of
seismology and earthquake science communities.

This guide provides a brief description of the science and technologies
behind the VERCE portal, and a step by step guide to using the portal.
The written description of each step is complemented by online tutorial
videos and presentations, and provides a stepping off point for users
who want to use other tools supported by VERCE such as ‘Obspy’, a python
toolbox for dealing with seismic data, and ‘Dispel4Py’, a python toolbox
designed to manage large data sets in seismology (and other
disciplines). The resources supported by VERCE should then enable a
seismologist of any specialism run large scale waveform simulations for
an area of interest, and deal with large seismological data sets.

VERCE – Virtual Earthquake and seismology Research Community e-science
environment in Europe - is an EU infrastructure project extending from
2011 and 2015, and the development of the VERCE portal has been a
collaborative project involving a wide range of project partners from
across the EU. VERCE was a major contribution to the e-science
environment of the European Plate Observing System (EPOS), which is
presently supporting further developments and updates of the VERCE
platform.

|image0|

**Figure 1.1:** A snapshot of a simulation of the Ml 5.2 Lunigiana
earthquake which occurred on the 21\ :sup:`st` June 2013 in Northern
Italy. Image produced by the INGV.


.. |image0| image:: images/Section1/image1.png

