2. Introduction to full waveform modeling
=========================================

2.1 Why full waveform?
----------------------

Much of the modern seismological methods used today rely on very little
of the information contained within the seismogram. Earthquakes can be
located using just the arrival time of the P- and S- waves, and this
same information from many earthquakes in a given area can be used to
invert for a travel time tomography. These methods however neglect the
vast majority of the data within the waveform.

The seismic waveforms recorded from an earthquake principally depend
upon the seismic structure of the medium they pass through (i.e. the
Earth), and the characteristics of the earthquake source itself. If this
waveform data is utilized, it could therefore lead to a much greater
resolution of seismic properties (e.g. velocity and attenuation) of the
Earth, as well as better models of earthquakesâ€™ sources and ground
motion from potentially hazardous earthquakes.

2.2 Calculating the wave field
------------------------------

In order to use the full waveform to constrain a seismic wave speed
model of the Earth, we need a way of calculating the response of the 3D
velocity models we already have. The physics of how a seismic wave
propagates through the earth is well understood, and is described by the
wave equation.

A number of different methods exist to solve the wave equation (or its
constituent equations) in order to model the propagation of a waveform
from its source through a velocity model to a receiver. In order to do
this, the modelled area is broken up into a grid of points with given
seismic properties, and the motion of each point in that grid is
calculated at each time step.

The spacing of these points is controlled by the velocity model used and
the frequency of the seismic wave that is modelled, with tighter grid
spacing and a smaller time step being required to model higher frequency
seismic waves.

The time step and grid spacing are also dependent on the method used to
solve the wave propagation. The codes supported within the VERCE
platform use the spectral element methods (Komatitsch et al., 2005) to
solve the seismic wave equation, hence calculating the response of the
seismic wave-field to the velocity and attenuation parameters of the
input model. Details on how to ensure that the model is stable to the
frequencies required are given in section 8 of this guide.

2.3 High performance computing in seismic waveform modeling
-----------------------------------------------------------

The main problem/issue with this sort of simulation is that calculating
the motion of a tight grid of points at thousands of time steps is
extremely computationally expensive. For this reason, both 2D and 3D
waveform models are run on high performance computers. These simulations
are executed in parallel, meaning that the simulation runs
simultaneously on many different processing cores. Simulations performed
through the VERCE platform can be run on a range of different super
computers from across Europe. The supercomputer pictured in figure 2.1
is hosted at SCAI Fraunhofer, Germany.

.. centered:: |image0|

**Figure 2.1:** One of the high performance computers which is
available through the VERCE platform is hosted at SCAI Fraunhofer,
Germany (https://www.scai.fraunhofer.de).

2.4 What do I need to run a simulation?
---------------------------------------

In order to run a full waveform seismic simulation you need to know the
following details:

i. **Velocity model**

   In order to calculate the wave-field you need to know the velocity
   structure of the area of interest. The velocity models already available
   through the portal are all based on published travel time tomography
   models, but it is also possible to load your own wave speed models into
   the portal (see section 8).

ii. **Mesh**

   The mesh is a grid of points within the volume that is to be modelled.
   The mesh takes into account the changes in required resolution with
   depth, but also the topography and bathymetry of the area being
   modelled. Several meshes are already loaded into the portal for specific
   regions. However, if you wish to run simulations in a new area, you will
   need to create and submit a new mesh and velocity model. Details of how
   to do this are given in section 8 of this guide.

iii. **Focal mechanisms**

   For any earthquake you want to model you must know the hypocentral
   location as well as the full focal mechanism. The VERCE portal allows
   you to download focal mechanisms from the gCMT catalogue and other local
   earthquake mechanism catalogues (e.g. INGV catalogue of TDMT solutions),
   but it is also possible to load in your own focal mechanisms as
   described in section 8.

iv. **Station locations**

   Again, using the portal, users can select station locations by accessing
   the information on international seismic networks through FDSN web
   services. However, if there are any networks or station locations that
   are not pre-loaded to the portal, you can also add your own station
   locations (section 8).

All of these are provided for certain study areas, such as the area we
consider in the simple example in part 5 of this guide.

However, If you are working on a study area that is not currently
supported in the VERCE portal, you will also need to create a new mesh,
velocity model, station locations and possible earthquake focal
mechanisms (although there are global catalogues supported in the
platform) and you can use them for bespoke simulations.

   
.. |image0| image:: images/Section2/image1.jpg
			:align: middle