4. A tour of the VERCE platform
===============================


In this section we will introduce the different parts of the VERCE
platform, and show the models and meshes that are already loaded into
the VERCE portal.

4.1 Welcome & News tabs
-----------------------------

|image0|

The welcome tab of the portal gives a very brief overview of the portals
uses, while the news tab gives details of recent significant
earthquakes. Other news such as upcoming training events, and
publications related to the VERCE platform may also be shown here.

4.2 Security tab
------------------

|image1|

We have already used many of the features available in this tab in order
to upload our proxy certificate. The main security page though gives an
overview of how to register for and get certificated for the platform,
as covered in section 3 of this guide. The main tools you need to be
aware of are the **‘MyProxy tool’** (section 3.4.1) and the
**‘Certificate’** upload tab (section 3.4.3).

4.3 Forward Modelling tab
---------------------------

|image2|

The ‘Forward Modelling’ tab is the main feature of the portal, and it is
from here that you can setup and run full waveform simulations, and
analyse the obtained output products. This section is divided in five
sub-tabs that allow the user to access the different steps of the
simulation and analysis procedure.

Jobs can be run from the *‘Simulation’* tab shown in figure 4.1 below.
On the right hand side of this panel, the code used for the simulations
can be selected from the drop down menu ‘Solvers’: so far both a code
for local/regional 3D simulations - SPECFEM3D\_Cartesian (Peter et al.,
2011; see Section 5) – or a code for regional/global 3D simulations –
SPECFEM3D\_GLOBE (Tromp, Komatitsch, and Liu 2008; see section 6) – can
be selected. Then, existing pre-loaded mesh and associated velocity
model for different areas in the world can be selected from the drop
down menus ‘Meshes’ and ‘Velocity Model’ respectively. Earthquake
sources and seismic stations can be selected from the catalogues that
are pre-installed into the portal under the ‘Earthquakes’ and ‘Stations’
tabs respectively. This process is described in more detail later in
section 5 and 6 of this guide.

Alternatively, you can add your own mesh and velocity model using the
blue link below the drop down boxes in figure 4.1. You can then add your
own earthquake focal mechanisms and station locations. Details on how to
create and submit a more advanced bespoke job like this are given in
section 8 of this guide.

The left hand side of the panel shows a summary map of the area you are
running your model for, currently showing the default view of Europe.
The map also shows details of existing geological maps, hazard maps and
fault traces. The relative weight of these can be adjusted using the
drop down menu from the layer info button in the top right of the map
area.

|image3|

**Figure 4.1:** The forward modeling interface ‘Simulation’ page.

From the *‘Download’* tab users can download observed seismograms from
the EIDA data archive corresponding to a specific earthquake selected
for simulations. These data cab be used in the subsequent procedure to
calculate misfit with respect to synthetic seismograms. Details in
section 7.

Moreover, both observed and synthetic seismograms can be processed
before comparison using the features under the *‘Processing’* tab and
quantitative misfit calculation can be performed in the section
*‘Misfit’*. All the results of simulations and analyses can be accessed
from the ‘Results’ tabs. Details are reported in section 7 of this
guide.

4.4 Provenance tab 
----------------------

|image4|

This tab gives access to the provenance explorer GUI, which allows the
methods assumptions and inputs that have lead to a given synthetic
output to be easily summarized. An example of the provenance GUI is
shown below (figure 4.2)

|image5|

**Figure 4.2:** An example displayed from the Provenance Explorer GUI
(taken for Atkinson et al 2016).

4.5 File Manager tab
----------------------

|image6|

The file manager tab gives a access to the files that are available to
the user. The files are sorted by model run. Examples of using the
functionality of this tab are given in section 7.

4.6 IRODS tab
---------------

|image7|

The iRODS tab gives direct access to the iRODS data structure, and
allows the data to be managed and potentially downloaded. Examples of
using the functionality of this tab are given in section 7.

4.7 The Meshes and models already uploaded
------------------------------------------

Currently there are several meshes and velocity models pre-loaded for
Italy, and a mesh pre-loaded for the Maule area of Central Chile. They
can be used for running 3D simulations at local/regional scale with the
code SPECFEM3D\_Cartesion, as explained in section 5 of this guide.

The frequency to which the seismic wave-field can be simulated is
controlled by the time step of the model, the spacing of grid points
within the mesh and ultimately by the values of wave velocities in the
corresponding model. For this reason, there is a maximum frequency (or
minimum period) of waveform that a given pair of mesh and velocity model
can support. This minimum period (maximum frequency) resolvable is shown
below (figure 4.3) for each of the combinations mesh-wavespeed model
currently available in the VERCE portal.

Other details of these meshes such as the suggested time step (suggest
DT) to make each model stable, the number of points in the mesh (Num. of
HEX), and the approximate time that a 1 minute simulation would take if
it was run on 100 cores (CPU time) are shown in figure 4.4. The UTM zone
for each of the meshes is also shown as this should be specified to run
the simulation and can be useful when using the output data.

Finally figure 4.5 gives details of the velocity models that are
uploaded, along with the meshes, to the VERCE portal. The minimum and
maximum P-wave and S-wave velocities are given as these are required to
calculate the grid spacing and time step needed to resolve a given
frequency of seismic wave.

|image8|

**Figure 4.3:** The mesh and velocity model combinations currently
available through the VERCE portal, and the period to which the
wave-field can be resolved in each of these mesh-model combinations.

|image9|

**Figure 4.4:** Details of the meshes currently available through the
VERCE platform.

|image10|

**Figure 4.5:** Details of the velocity models that are currently
available through the VERCE platform.

.. |image0| image:: images/Section4/image1.jpg

.. |image1| image:: images/Section4/image2.jpg

.. |image2| image:: images/Section4/image3.jpg

.. |image3| image:: images/Section4/image4.jpg

.. |image4| image:: images/Section4/image5.jpg

.. |image5| image:: images/Section4/image6.png

.. |image6| image:: images/Section4/image7.jpg

.. |image7| image:: images/Section4/image8.jpg

.. |image8| image:: images/Section4/image9.jpg
   :scale: 50%

.. |image9| image:: images/Section4/image10.jpg
   :scale: 50%

.. |image10| image:: images/Section4/image11.jpg
   :scale: 50%

